cv_content.md, before:

![IKR](img/ikr.jpg "Ivan Krechetov")

# Curriculum vitæ

My name is **Ivan Krechetov**. I was born on November 16, **1979**, in Novosibirsk, **Russia**. I
live in Winterthur, **Switzerland**, with my family: a wife and two children.

## Early years

Before I was 11 I didn’t even care if computers exist. Then, one day I randomly stumbled upon a book
about BASIC, the programming language. _And then it began…_ I was totally blown away by the idea
that I could create my own worlds in code. I was eager to build smart, beautiful things, which are
able to make their own decisions, and be… alive, sort of.

For several years it was a constant creativity bliss: all those small programs and games I made and
never really finished — because new shiny ideas appeared faster than I could code.

Since the very beginning I had no doubts at all that I'll be coding all my life.

## Education

### 1996–2001

I've obtained a **Bachelor's degree** from Novosibirsk State University, having graduated with
honors, with **100% excellent** grades in the Diploma, which makes me **one of the top-2%
students**.

I studied at the Department of Mechanics and Mathematics. Chair of Programming Subject of research:
Forming the object-oriented data structures tailor-made for the search tasks.

Commit message:

Early years updated; writing about the education

cv_content.md, after:

![IKR](img/ikr.jpg "Ivan Krechetov")

# Curriculum vitæ

My name is **Ivan Krechetov**. I was born in **1979**, in Novosibirsk, **Russia**. I live in
Winterthur, **Switzerland**, with my family: a wife and two daughters.

## Early years

Before I was 11 I didn’t even care if computers exist. Then, one day I randomly stumbled upon a book
about BASIC, the programming language. _And then it began…_ I was totally blown away by the idea
that I could create my own worlds in code. I was eager to build smart, beautiful things, which are
able to make their own decisions, and be… alive, sort of.

It was a constant creativity bliss: all those small programs and games I made and hardly ever really
finished — because I was only 12, and because new shiny ideas appeared faster than I could code.
Since the very beginning I had no doubts at all that I'll be coding all my life.

## Education

### 1996–2001

I've obtained a **Bachelor's degree** from Novosibirsk State University (NSU), having graduated with
honors, with **100% excellent** grades in the Diploma, which makes me **one of the top-2%
students**.

I studied at the department of mechanics and mathematics. We had _a lot_ of Math: mathematical
analysis, theory of functions of a complex variable, abstract algebra, computation methods, discrete
mathematics, you name it. Basically, the curriculum was: all the Math imaginable + gym class.

In the last two years I was doing the research at the chair of programming. My qualification work
subject was “Forming the object-oriented data structures tailor-made for the search tasks”. In
essence that was a rather simplistic exploration of how one would go about building an
object-oriented database.

### 2001–2003

I continued at NSU, and obtained a **Master's degree**, again **with honors**; however, the grades
weren't that maxed-out anymore, as I already had in parallel a full-time job.
