![IKR](img/ikr.jpg "Ivan Krechetov")

# Curriculum vitæ

My name is **Ivan Krechetov**. I was born in **1979**, in Novosibirsk, **Russia**. I live in
Winterthur, **Switzerland**, with my family: a wife and two daughters.

## Early years

Before I was 11 I didn’t even care if computers exist. Then, one day I randomly stumbled upon a book
about BASIC, the programming language. _And then it began…_ I was totally blown away by the idea
that I could create my own worlds in code. I was eager to build smart, beautiful things, which are
able to make their own decisions, and be… alive, sort of.

It was a constant creativity bliss: all those small programs and games I made and hardly ever really
finished — because I was only 12, and because new shiny ideas appeared faster than I could code.
Since the very beginning I had no doubts at all that I'll be coding all my life.

## Education  

### 1996–2001

I've obtained a **Bachelor's degree** from [Novosibirsk State University](http://www.nsu.ru) (NSU),
having graduated with honors, with **100% excellent** grades in the diploma, which makes me **one of
the top-2% students**.

I studied at the department of mechanics and mathematics. We had _a lot_ of Math: mathematical
analysis, theory of functions of a complex variable, mathematical logic, abstract algebra,
computation methods, discrete mathematics, probability and statistics, you name it. Basically, the
curriculum was: all the Math imaginable + gym class.

In the last two years I was doing a research at the chair of programming. My qualification work
subject was “Forming the object-oriented data structures tailor-made for the search tasks”. In
essence that was a rather simplistic exploration of how one would go about building an
object-oriented database.

### 2001–2003

I continued at NSU, the same department and chair, and obtained a **Master's degree**, again
**with honors**; however, the grades weren't that maxed-out anymore, as I already had in parallel a
full-time job. My master's thesis subject was: “Effective RDBMS usage in an object-oriented
application”. Regarding the curriculum, it was more of the computer science-related courses
than during the bachelor's program.

### October 2005–October 2006

I worked as a **PhD Associate** at the [University of Twente](http://trese.cs.utwente.nl/) in
Enschede, The **Netherlands**. My subject was: “Aspectual Refactoring of Software Architectures”,
research in the field of aspect-oriented software development: separation of concerns, architectural
aspects, architectural styles, software architecture design process, formalized evaluation and
refactoring.

Unfortunately, PhD research work didn't quite meet my expectations. It was too much of writing
papers, and too little (almost none) of writing code. While, of course, the educational value was
great, and I definitely learned a lot. Thus, in spite of rather promising initial results, I have
quitted the PhD in favor of a programming job in Switzerland.

## Professional Experience

### March 2000–September 2000

**Glance AG, Zürich.** Worked as a junior programmer on _ActiveFrame_ and it's applications.
ActiveFrame was a framework for the development of common document flow applications, which engages
rich data management via an object-oriented database (OO DB). My part was the automatic code
generator, and the enhancement of some OO DB features.