new_resume_content.md, before:

Ivan Krechetov
Winterthur, Switzerland
ikr@ikr.su
+41 79 697 02 75

# Objective

Solving practical problems with well crafted software that _actually works._ Will fill a tech lead
or senior software engineer position. Up to a certain size, can take the full responsibility for a
project, directly communicating with the customer. Have a strong preference for functional
programming techniques.

# Experience

## Oct 2006 — today Tech lead at XIAG AG (Zurich, Winterthur)

### Accomplishments

* Made a customer's board of directors think an app was a static prototype because of how fast it
  responded

* Led a successful 2 man-year full rewrite, after the first full rewrite attempt with another vendor
  has failed completely

* Drove the adoption of better practices and tools, like
  * test-driven development
  * code reviews
  * static analysis and linting
  * continuous integration
  * PHP → Node.js
  * jQuery → React/Redux
  * app configuration automation with SaltStack and Vagrant
  * CVS → Subversion → Git

### Notable projects

* SwissHotels.com, dozens of specialized partner sites
* Trade.stc.ch — b2b hotel booking
* Ostjob.ch, a few forks
* MS Windows-native digital photo prints ordering software for ifolor

### Tech stacks

* JavaScript, React/Redux, Elm, Angular, Node.js
* PHP, Silex, Zend Framework, Nginx
* PostgreSQL, Redis, CouchDB, Sphinx search
* Linux, SaltStack SCM
* C++ on Win32, WTL/ATL, GDI+

## Oct 2003 — Sep 2005 Project manager at XIAG AG (Novosibirsk)

## Apr 2002 — Sep 2003 Programmer at Center of Financial Technologies (Novosibirsk)

## Oct 2001 — Mar 2002 Programmer at iNetLab (Novosibirsk)

## Oct 2000 — Sep 2001 Programmer at Auktion24 Development (Novosibirsk)

## Mar 2000 — Sep 2000 Junior Programmer at Glance AG (Zurich)

# Education

## Oct 2005 — Oct 2006 PhD assotiate at University of Twente (Enschede)

## 2001 — 2003 MSc in Applied Mathematics and Informatics (Novosibirsk)

Graduated with honors

## 1996 — 2001 BSc in Mathematics (Novosibirsk)

Graduated with honors, 100% excellent grades — in the top 2% of the course

Commit message:

Fill in the accomplishments and the tech

new_resume_content.md, after:

Ivan Krechetov
Winterthur, Switzerland
ikr@ikr.su
+41 79 697 02 75

# Objective

Solving practical problems with well crafted software that _actually works._ Will fill a tech lead
or senior software engineer position. Up to a certain size, can take the full responsibility for a
project, directly communicating with the customer. Have a strong preference for functional
programming techniques.

# Experience

## Oct 2006 — today Tech lead at XIAG AG (Zurich, Winterthur)

### Accomplishments

* Made a customer's board of directors think an app was a static prototype because of how fast it
  responded

* Led a successful 2 man-year full rewrite, after the first full rewrite attempt with another vendor
  has failed completely

* Drove the adoption of better practices and tools, like
  * test-driven development
  * code reviews
  * static analysis and linting
  * continuous integration
  * PHP → Node.js
  * jQuery → React/Redux
  * app configuration automation with SaltStack and Vagrant
  * CVS → Subversion → Git

### Notable projects

* SwissHotels.com, dozens of specialized partner sites
* Trade.stc.ch — b2b hotel booking
* Ostjob.ch, a few forks
* MS Windows-native digital photo prints ordering software for ifolor

### Tech stacks

* JavaScript, React/Redux, Elm, Angular, Node.js
* PHP, Silex, Zend Framework, Nginx
* PostgreSQL, Redis, CouchDB, Sphinx search
* Linux, SaltStack SCM
* C++ on Win32, WTL/ATL, GDI+

## Oct 2003 — Sep 2005 Project manager at XIAG AG (Novosibirsk)

Learned quite a bit about hiring programmers, realized I never want to be a manager again.

## Apr 2002 — Sep 2003 Programmer at Center of Financial Technologies (Novosibirsk)

Working on internal platform development tools was rewarded twice for radically improving the user
experience.

Tech: Oracle, Visual Basic 6, C++ on Win32, COM

## Oct 2001 — Mar 2002 Programmer at iNetLab (Novosibirsk)

Tech: Java with Java2D and Swing, C++ on Win32, Visual Basic 5

## Oct 2000 — Sep 2001 Programmer at Auktion24 Development (Novosibirsk)

The company which developed the very 1st version of ricardo.ch. After the Ricardo part had been
sold, and the other product had failed to grow, almost all engineers (about 60) were fired. I was
among of the few who were asked to stay to “keep the lights on”.

Tech: Java, Linux, Apache JServ, XSLT, Oracle, Java RMI

## Mar 2000 — Sep 2000 Junior Programmer at Glance AG (Zurich)

Building a data model editor and code generator, on my own initiative, baked in an unlimited
undo/redo feature. It was the first app in the company ever doing that.

Tech: C++, Win32, MFC, Oracle

# Education

## Oct 2005 — Oct 2006 PhD assotiate at University of Twente (Enschede)

## 2001 — 2003 MSc in Applied Mathematics and Informatics (Novosibirsk)

Graduated with honors

## 1996 — 2001 BSc in Mathematics (Novosibirsk)

Graduated with honors, 100% excellent grades — one of the top 2% of students
