# Resumé

My name is **Ivan Krechetov**, and I'm a **programmer**. I was born in **1979**, in Novosibirsk,
**Russia**. I live in Winterthur, **Switzerland** with my family: a wife and two daughters.

## Early years

Before I was 11 I didn’t even care if computers exist. Then, one day I randomly stumbled upon a book
about BASIC, the programming language. _And then it began…_ I was totally blown away by the idea
that I could create my own worlds in code. I was eager to build smart, beautiful things, which are
able to make their own decisions, and be… alive, sort of.

It was a constant creativity bliss: all those small programs and games I made and hardly really
finished — because I was only 12, and because new shiny ideas appeared faster than I could code.
Since the very beginning I had no doubts at all that **I'll be coding all my life**.

## Education

### 1996—2001

I've obtained a **Bachelor's degree** from [Novosibirsk State University](http://www.nsu.ru) (NSU),
graduated with honors, with **100% excellent** grades in the diploma, which makes me **one of the
top-2% students**.

I studied at the department of mechanics and mathematics. We had _a lot_ of **Math**: mathematical
analysis, theory of functions of a complex variable, mathematical logic, abstract algebra,
computation methods, discrete mathematics, probability and statistics, you name it. Basically, the
curriculum was: all the Math imaginable + gym class.

In the last two years I did the research work at the chair of programming. My qualification work
subject was “Forming the object-oriented data structures tailor-made for the search tasks”. In
essence that was a rather simplistic exploration of how one would go about building an
**object-oriented database**.

### 2001—2003

I continued at NSU, the same department and chair, and obtained a **Master's degree**, again
**with honors**; however, the grades weren't that maxed-out anymore, as I already had in parallel a
full-time job. My master's thesis subject was: “Effective RDBMS usage in an object-oriented
application” — exploration on the topic of **object-relational mapping**. Regarding the curriculum,
it was more of the **computer science**-related courses than during the bachelor's program.

Reference: [Dr. Prof. Alexander Marchuk](http://db.iis.nsk.su/structure/personpage.asp?PersonID=54&lang=eng)

### October 2005—October 2006

I worked as a **PhD Associate** at the [University of Twente](http://trese.cs.utwente.nl/) in
Enschede, The **Netherlands**. My subject was: “Aspectual Refactoring of Software Architectures” —
research in the field of **aspect-oriented** software development: **separation of concerns**,
architectural aspects, architectural styles, software architecture design process, formalized
evaluation and refactoring.

Unfortunately, PhD research work didn't quite meet my expectations. It was too much of writing
papers, and too little (almost none) of writing code. While, of course, the educational value was
great, and I definitely learned a lot. Thus, in spite of rather promising initial results, I have
**quit** the PhD in favor of a programming job in Switzerland.

Reference: [Prof. Dr. Ir. Mehmet Akşit](http://www.utwente.nl/ewi/trese/people/Aksit/)

## Publications

* I. Krechetov. Relational Data Storage Support in an Object-Oriented Application. / Abstracts of
international conference of young scientists "Mathematical modeling and information technologies",
Novosibirsk, 2002, pp. 61 - 61.

* I. Krechetov. The Automated Building of SQL Queries for Object Data. / IIS SBRAS Preprint,
vol. 118, Novosibirsk, 2004, 27 p.

* I. Krechetov. Introduction of a Universal Persistence Layer for a Visual Basic Applications
Suite. / Abstracts of conference-and-contest of students, post- graduates and young scientists
"Microsoft technologies in informatics and programming", Novosibirsk, 2005, pp. 77 - 78.

* I. Krechetov et al. Initial Version of Aspect-Oriented Architecture Design Approach. /
AOSD-Europe NoE technical report D37, University of Twente, 2006, pp 1-57.

* I. Krechetov et al. Towards an Integrated Aspect-Oriented Modeling Approach for Software
Architecture Design. / 8th International Workshop on Aspect-Oriented Modeling at AOSD Conference,
March 2006, Bonn, Germany.

## Teaching and presentations

* Novosibirsk State University, 1st semester, 2001: seminars, selected lectures and exams for the
course “UML, The Unified Modeling Language”.

* JSZurich user group [presentation](http://vimeo.com/21795367) "Street Magic with Functions".

* WebTuesday Zurich [lightning talk](http://vimeo.com/25572899) "7 Deadly Sins in Unit Testing".

* Zurich Frontend Conference 2012 [lightning talk](https://github.com/ikr/rise-against-the-state)
  "Rise against the state".

## Professional Experience

### March 2000—September 2000: Glance AG, Zürich

Worked as a junior programmer on _ActiveFrame_ and it's applications. ActiveFrame was a framework
for the development of **document flow** support programs, which require rich data management. My
part was the code generator, and the enhancement of some of the object-oriented database features.
The ActiveFrame application I maintained most of the time was a customer contacts management
program.

Tech: **C++**, Win32, MFC, Oracle.

References: [Felix Berger](mailto:felix.berger@pdf-tools.com), [Hans Bärfuss](mailto:hans.baerfuss@pdf-tools.com)

Left the position because of the limited period of the Swiss work permit L.

### October 2000—September 2001: Auktion24 Development, Novosibirsk

The company is known for creating [ricardo.ch](http://www.ricardo.ch). However, I wasn't in Ricardo
team, but rather working on something that was supposed to become “the next big thing” for
the company, but never actually has: [WeTellYou.com](http://www.wetellyou.com/) — a global **expert
advice system**, meant to provide a communication platform for people asking questions and giving
answers — via Web, e-mail, chat and telephone. The application supplied IP-telephony and billing,
WAP and PDA adaptations.

I was responsible for the data layer, programmed the chat client, and have built an ad-hoc tasks
scheduler — crontab appeared to be not good enough for us.

Tech: **Java**, Linux, Apache JServ, XSLT, Oracle, Java RMI

References: [Gregory Entin](mailto:g.entin@gmail.com), [Adrian Pfister](mailto:adrianpfister@gmail.com)

Left the position because the project was declared a financial dead-end, and cancelled.

### October 2001—March 2002: iNetLab, Novosibirsk.

* Developed a program for visual modeling in the field of **seismic geophysics**: drawing the earth and
water layers, and assigning their attributes. Ultimately, the model is exported for computation
handled by a different program.

* Handled miscellaneous maintenance and integration tasks for the existing projects.

Tech: **Java** with Java2D and Swing, **C++** on Win32, **Visual Basic 5**

Reference: [Alexander Osipov](http://db.iis.nsk.su/structure/personpage.asp?PersonID=138&lang=eng)

Left the position because the company projects situation wan't stable and too promising, which
greatly influenced the salary. For me that appeared to be a quick temporary employment after
Auktion24 crash. However, I did like the people, and the work was quite a bit of fun.

### April 2002—September 2003: Center of Financial Technologies, Novosibirsk

The [company](http://www.cft.ru) is one of the leaders in Russia in providing software and hardware
solutions for **finance and banking**. I worked in the _IBSO Platform_ team. IBSO is a banking
applications platform: proprietary object-oriented programming language translated into Oracle
PL/SQL, business model designer, screen forms editor, access rights manager, operator's module, and
several utility applications.

I was responsible for the maintenance of the existing IBSO modules, implementation of the new
features (primarily GUI). Re-engineering, refactoring, integration of the new development concept
into the “old” code. Did the analysis, design, prototyping and implementation of the common
**persistence layer** for the IBSO client modules.

Tech: Oracle, **Visual Basic 6**, **C++** on Win32, COM

Reference: [Anatoly Lisovoy](mailto:A.Lisovoy@cft.ru)

Left the position because of a lucrative offer from XIAG AG, and I thought that in a much smaller
company, as a project leader, I'll be able to make the difference.

### October 2003—September 2005: XIAG AG, Novosibirsk

A custom Web applications development [company](http://www.xiag.ch). That was my first, and
hopefully the last, experience as a **manager**. Not writing any production code for over a year was
_physically_ painful in the end. However, I believe I did a pretty decent job as a manager. I
controlled multiple projects' progress, communicated with customers, and translated their concerns
into engineers' tasks, evaluated the results, prepared the project proposals for potential
customers, wrote specifications, interviewed job candidates.

After about a year I became desperate for coding. But I lacked the experience at the time with Web
programming, and wasn't much inspired by PHP4 language. Luckily, we found a C++ project for me: a
**digital photo prints** [ordering software](http://en.ifolor.ch/ordering_software_en_ch.Ifolor?ActiveID=1388)
for Microsoft Windows. It had a custom look, simple image enhancement features, ordering Web GUI
integration via an embedded Internet Explorer, network communication with the server for the photos
upload, writing orders to CD/DVD for sending by post. When released, it was downloaded and **used by
tens of thousands of people**.

Tech: **C++** on Win32, WTL/ATL, GDI+

Reference: [Andreas Graf](mailto:andreas.graf@xiag.ch)

Left the position to do PhD in Holland.

### October 2006—today: XIAG AG, Zürich

Now I'm working at [XIAG](http://www.xiag.ch/) as a **programmer and project leader**. I'm
interacting directly with the customers, specifying and estimating the projects' scope and
iterations; I'm defining tasks for up to 4 other team members. But most of the time I'm writing
code. I led the following Web applications' development from scratch.

* [Smile-o-meter](http://smile-o-meter.vns6.xiag.ch/). An app for surveying the employees'
[satisfaction](img/smile-o-meter.png), and soliciting feedback.

* [Bruker BioSpin store](http://store.bruker-biospin.com). Online store of the scientific lab
equipment.

* [STC B2B tool](https://trade.stc.ch). Hotel stay bundles booking platform used by travel agencies
partnering with [Switzerland Travel Centre](http://www.stc.ch/).

* Job portals [jobs.nzz.ch](http://jobs.nzz.ch/), [Ostjob.ch](http://ostjob.ch) and
[Zentraljob.ch](http://zentraljob.ch).

* Hotels booking engine of STC/[MySwitzerland](http://www.myswitzerland.com) --
  [www.swiss-hotels.com](https://www.swiss-hotels.com).

Tech: **PHP**, Silex, Zend Framework, **JavaScript**, Node.js, Backbone.js, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS,
Apache, nginx, Linux, CouchDB, PostgreSQL, sqlite, Sphinx search, SOAP

I also maintained, or implemented new features for the following applications.

* ifolor prints [ordering software](http://www.ifolor.ch/en/downloads) for Windows.

* EngadinBooking.ch (retired) -- an iFrame-able GUI for booking hotels, using an external
Web-service.

* [Engadin valley tourism portal](http://www.engadin.stmoritz.ch).

* Older version of [Interhome Web statistics](https://webstats.interhome.com) reports. Aggregating
and reporting the sales figures for the holiday apartments provided by [Interhome](http://www.interhome.ch/).

* A file upload Java Applet for a Web site.

Tech: PHP, JavaScript, CSS, C++, C#/ASP.NET, Java, Apache, Linux, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MS SQL Server

Reference: [Andreas Graf](mailto:andreas.graf@xiag.ch)

## Other small projects (pre-[GitHub](https://github.com/ikr/) times)

* Miranda IM [plug-in](https://github.com/ikr/CyrTranslit)

* Difference schemes for differential equations, Monte-Carlo methods, Genetic algorithms, Neural
networks (C, C++, Pascal, Delphi)

* Physical process modeling (ANSI C)

* 3D graphics – Displaying the linear and quadric primitives (C++)

## Skills

* Clean code.

* I'm a test-driven development practitioner.

* Deep knowledge of object-oriented analysis and design, awareness of software design patterns.

* I follow [SOLID](http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod) principles of
object-oriented design, which mix quite well with [DRY](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself),
[YAGNI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_ain't_gonna_need_it), and [KISS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle).

* I'm a functional programming enthusiast, being aware of dangers of _The State_, and understanding
that not everything has to be an object.

* Programming languages I used professionally; sorted by my fluency as of _today_: best known —
first, less known — last:
    1. PHP
    1. JavaScript
    1. C++
    1. Java
    1. Visual Basic 6
    1. C#

* Other programming languages I used for fun and education: C, Scheme, Clojure, Erlang, Haskell,
Ruby, Pascal, x86 Assembler, Prolog.

* Yes, I also know SQL, a bit of PL/pgSQL, HTML, some CSS, and XSL.

* Databases used: CouchDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, sqlite, Oracle, MS SQL Server.

* Version control systems used: Git, Subversion, CVS, Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe

* Literate writing in English and Russian, good communication skills. Spoken languages: Russian
  (native), English (fluent), German (B1)
