src/resume.md, before:

---
title: 'Ivan Krechetov'
website: http://ikr.su
city: Winterthur
postcode: 8404
phone: +41 79 697 02 75
email: ikr@ikr.su
date: 02 May 2018
...

### Objective

> Solve practical problems with well-crafted software that _actually works._ Will fill a tech lead or senior software engineer position. Up to a certain size, can take the full responsibility for a project, directly communicating with the customer, and delegating tasks in the team. Particularly excited about the functional programming techniques and advanced type systems.

### Experience

- 10/2006 — today | Tech lead at XIAG AG (Zurich, Winterthur)

> Accomplishments: Led a successful 2 man-year full rewrite, after the first full rewrite attempt with another vendor has failed. Made a customer's board of directors think an app was a static prototype because of how fast it responded. Drove the adoption of better practices and tools, like test-driven development, code reviews, static analysis and linting, continuous integration, PHP → Node.js, jQuery → React/Redux, Underscore.js → Ramda, app configuration automation with SaltStack and Vagrant, CVS → Subversion → Git.

> Notable projects: SwissHotels.com with dozens of specialized partner sites, Trade.stc.ch — b2b hotel booking, Ostjob.ch with a few forks, MS Windows-native digital photo prints ordering software for ifolor

> Tech stacks: JavaScript, React/Redux, Elm, Angular, Node.js, PHP, Silex, Zend Framework, Nginx, PostgreSQL, Redis, CouchDB, Sphinx search, Linux, SaltStack SCM, C++ on Win32, WTL/ATL, GDI+

- 10/2003 — 09/2005 | Managing director at XIAG AG (Novosibirsk)

> Learned about hiring programmers, aqcuired some diplomacy skills

- 04/2002 — 09/2003 | Programmer at Center of Financial Technologies (Novosibirsk)

> Working on internal platform development tools, was rewarded twice with an out-of-cycle bonus for significantly improving the user experience

> Tech: Oracle, Visual Basic 6, C++ on Win32, COM

\newpage

- 10/2001 — 03/2002 | Programmer at iNetLab (Novosibirsk)

> Learned about the domain of seismic geophysics and interfacing with Fortran code.

> Tech: Java with Java2D and Swing, C++ on Win32, Visual Basic 5

- 10/2000 — 09/2001 | Programmer at Auktion24 Development (Novosibirsk)

> The company which developed the very 1st version of ricardo.ch. After the Ricardo part had been sold, and the new product WeTellYou.com had failed to grow, almost all engineers (about 60) were fired. Was among the few who were asked to stay to “keep the lights on”.

> Tech: Java, Linux, Apache JServ, XSLT, Oracle, Java RMI

- 03/2000 — 09/2000 | Junior Programmer at Glance AG (Zurich)

> Building a data model editor and code generator, on an own initiative implemented an unlimited undo/redo feature. It was the first app in the company providing such capability.

> Tech: C++, Win32, MFC, Oracle

### Education

- 10/2005 — 10/2006 | PhD assotiate at University of Twente (Enschede)

> Research topic: Aspect-oriented software architecture design. Quit the program, changed to industry work.

- 2001 — 2003 | MSc in Applied Mathematics and Informatics at Novosibirsk State University

> Graduated with honors

- 1996 — 2001 | BSc in Mathematics at Novosibirsk State University

> Graduated with honors, 100% excellent grades — one of the top 2% of students

Commit message:

Soften the board meeting story

src/resume.md, after:

---
title: 'Ivan Krechetov'
website: http://ikr.su
city: Winterthur
postcode: 8404
phone: +41 79 697 02 75
email: ikr@ikr.su
date: 02 May 2018
...

### Objective

> Solve practical problems with well-crafted software that _actually works._ Will fill a tech lead or senior software engineer position. Up to a certain size, can take the full responsibility for a project, directly communicating with the customer, and delegating tasks in the team. Particularly excited about the functional programming techniques and advanced type systems.

### Experience

- 10/2006 — today | Tech lead at XIAG AG (Zurich, Winterthur)

> Accomplishments: Led a successful 2 man-year full rewrite, after the first full rewrite attempt with another vendor has failed. Designed an app architecture for high performance, resulting in an implementation that was mistaken on a board meeting for a static prototype, because of how fast it responded. Drove the adoption of better practices and tools, like test-driven development, code reviews, static analysis and linting, continuous integration, PHP → Node.js, jQuery → React/Redux, Underscore.js → Ramda, app configuration automation with SaltStack and Vagrant, CVS → Subversion → Git.

> Notable projects: SwissHotels.com with dozens of specialized partner sites, Trade.stc.ch — b2b hotel booking, Ostjob.ch with a few forks, MS Windows-native digital photo prints ordering software for ifolor

> Tech stacks: JavaScript, React/Redux, Elm, Angular, Node.js, PHP, Silex, Zend Framework, Nginx, PostgreSQL, Redis, CouchDB, Sphinx search, Linux, SaltStack SCM, C++ on Win32, WTL/ATL, GDI+

- 10/2003 — 09/2005 | Managing director at XIAG AG (Novosibirsk)

> Learned about hiring programmers, aqcuired some diplomacy skills

- 04/2002 — 09/2003 | Programmer at Center of Financial Technologies (Novosibirsk)

> Working on internal platform development tools, was rewarded twice with an out-of-cycle bonus for significantly improving the user experience

> Tech: Oracle, Visual Basic 6, C++ on Win32, COM

\newpage

- 10/2001 — 03/2002 | Programmer at iNetLab (Novosibirsk)

> Learned about the domain of seismic geophysics and interfacing with Fortran code.

> Tech: Java with Java2D and Swing, C++ on Win32, Visual Basic 5

- 10/2000 — 09/2001 | Programmer at Auktion24 Development (Novosibirsk)

> The company which developed the very 1st version of ricardo.ch. After the Ricardo part had been sold, and the new product WeTellYou.com had failed to grow, almost all engineers (about 60) were fired. Was among the few who were asked to stay to “keep the lights on”.

> Tech: Java, Linux, Apache JServ, XSLT, Oracle, Java RMI

- 03/2000 — 09/2000 | Junior Programmer at Glance AG (Zurich)

> Building a data model editor and code generator, on an own initiative implemented an unlimited undo/redo feature. It was the first app in the company providing such capability.

> Tech: C++, Win32, MFC, Oracle

### Education

- 10/2005 — 10/2006 | PhD assotiate at University of Twente (Enschede)

> Research topic: Aspect-oriented software architecture design. Quit the program, changed to industry work.

- 2001 — 2003 | MSc in Applied Mathematics and Informatics at Novosibirsk State University

> Graduated with honors

- 1996 — 2001 | BSc in Mathematics at Novosibirsk State University

> Graduated with honors, 100% excellent grades — one of the top 2% of students
